Jorge
=====


The NumFOCUS project is an organization who's mission is to promote open
practices in research, data and scientific computing by providing economical
support to open-source organizations. This financial help is partially done
trough its [sustainability
programs](https://numfocus.org/programs/sustainability). One of the programs,
the **small development grants**, calls for proposals three times a year. In
particular, **last round deadline proposal is October 19, 2020.** 

It is possible for poliastro to apply for this third round. Therefore, a project
idea needs to be presented together with several objectives to achieve if
finally selected. Each proposal can obtain **up to $5000\$$**. This money can be
used for **code and documentation development**, website maintenance, workshops
and others.  **Only condition is proposed tasks to be completed before 2021
year.**

Any person, no matter its nationality or role (student, postdoc...) can apply
for the proposal once selected.


Project ideas for poliastro project during third round
======================================================

The [poliastro](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/) project is a **pure
Python library focused in orbital mechanics computations** by providing a simple
but powerful API. It has **successfully participated  in other open-source
programs** such us [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
from which new and powerful implementations were merged into main source code.

In the following subsections, several ideas are presented as proposals for the
small development grants program. Some of them try to continue the actual line
of implementations of the project while other open new ones.


Extending Earth capabilities
----------------------------

At the moment, the project is focused on extending **Earth capabilities** due to
the **interest increase** in small satellites and missions which take place in
**orbits around the planet**. As a continuity of the [GSoC'20
edition](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/dashboard/project/6624764354887680/overview/),
the following features could be developed and included within future version of
the software:

* Extend `EarthSatellite` attribute and methods: specific maneuvers, minimum
  altitude variation orbits, rise and set times, close approach analysis...
* Enable poliastro to generate internal orbit objects from TLE. New specific
  propagators such us SGP4 are required for this task.
* Include more gravitational and atmospheric ones.
* Documentation usage on `EarthSatellite` and tutorials on its usage.

**This proposal would lead to feasible amount of work during the program. It might
open new development branches within the project and attract more users.**


Validation and testing
----------------------

Many of the **unit tests used by poliastro assume expected results found in
literature**. Although most of those are easy to validate, **some other routines
might be too complex to be found in introductory academical books or manuals**,
imposing the need of **alternative testing solutions**. Different astrodynamics
and orbital mechanics softwares are available in the market but not all of them
are open-source and script based. Among those, three possible options arise:
[Orekit](https://www.orekit.org/),
[GMAT](https://sourceforge.net/projects/gmat/) and
[AGI-STK](https://www.agi.com/products/stk).

Both GMAT and STK show a similar custom script syntax while **Orekit recently
introduced a Python**
[wrapper](https://gitlab.orekit.org/orekit-labs/python-wrapper/-/wikis/installation).
This API can be used to imitate actual poliastro's `Orbit` objects and test, for
example, three-dimensional two-body maneuvers. Only disadvantage is that Orekit
software uses Java as its main programming language being, therefore, not a pure
Python software.


Three-body problem and N-body simulations
-----------------------------------------

At the moment, poliastro does not have any kind of n-body simulator. Although a
`threebody/` module exists, it only contains numerical functions focused on
patched conics and Lagrange points. This proposal would increase the amount of
features related with N-body simulations, and in particular with the three-body
problem. The following tasks might become a good starting point:

* Development of N-body integrator.
* Particular solutions, restricted three-body problem.
* Addition of documentation examples.


Proposals comparison and conclusion
===================================

Among all the different proposals depicted before, the **Extending Earth
capabilities** would be the most interesting one at the moment for the poliastro
project. Although the others provide new research and development branches, they
require to be implemented from scratch. It becomes more interesting to **keep
working on the new `EarthSatellite` object, increasing its usage by extending
its attributes and methods**. This, as said before, may lead to an **increase of
project users and its applications to real world problems.**
